<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Through the Fire</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="through-the-fire" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Through the Fire</h2>
			<p>Little Jack sat alone by the fire, watching it sadly. He was seven years old, but so small and pale that he looked little more than five, for he was a cripple, He had no brothers or sisters, and he was nearly always alone, for his mother, who was a widow, went out all day to teach music, and often in the evening also to play dance-music at children’s parties. They lived on the third floor of a small house in a dull old street in London, and Jack spent nearly all day in the little lonely sitting-room by himself, sitting by the fire. Tonight he felt sadder than usual, for it was Christmas-eve, and his mother had gone to a child’s party at a grand house, and she had said that there would most likely be a Christmas-tree there, with presents on it for all the little boys and girls, and Jack thought it very hard that when other children had so much more pleasure than he, they must even rob him of his own mother.</p>
			<p>If she were at home she would sit by him on the hearthrug and take his head in her lap and tell him long, long stories of giants and fairies. Generally he liked her to go to parties, for, where-ever it was, she never forgot to bring him something from the supper-table; no matter how little a thing it might be, only a cracker or a single sweet, but he was sure to find something waiting for him on his pillow when he woke in the morning; and, indeed, sometimes there had been quite a nice little parcel of sweets and crackers and dried fruits sent to him by the mistress of the house or some of the children, when his mother had dared to ask if she might take something to her little boy at home.</p>
			<p>But tonight he wanted his mother herself, and did not care for anything she would bring him in the morning. He sat and thought till the tears rose to his eyes, and he sobbed outright.</p>
			<p>“It’s a shame,” he said, “a dreadful shame. I think it’s too bad;” and he seized the poker, and gave the fire a great dig.</p>
			<p>“For pity’s sake, don’t do that again,” said a small voice from the flames; “it’s enough to break one to bits.”</p>
			<p>Jack stopped crying and looked into the fire. There he saw a little figure, the strangest he had ever beheld, balancing itself skilfully on the top of a piece of burning coal. It was just like a little man, not more than three inches high, dressed from head to foot in orange-scarlet, the colour of flame, and wearing on his head a long pointed cap of the same colour.</p>
			<p>“Who are you?” asked Jack, breathlessly.</p>
			<p>“Don’t you know that it’s rude to ask questions?” said the mannikin, winking one eye. “However, if you very much want to know, I’m a fire-fairy.” .</p>
			<p>“A fire-fairy!” repeated Jack, still staring and breathless.</p>
			<p>“Yes; is that so very strange?”</p>
			<p>“But I don’t believe in fairies,” said Jack, unable to remove his eyes from the weird little figure.</p>
			<p>The little man laughed.</p>
			<p>“That doesn’t make any difference to me,” he said. “Perhaps you don’t believe in wind-fairies or water-fairies either. But you’d never have a fire but for us; we light them, and keep them in. If I were to go away now, your fire would be out in an instant, and you might blow and blow it as much as you liked; it would be all no use, unless one of us were to come back and put the light into the coals.”</p>
			<p>“But how is it you don’t get burnt up?” asked Jack.</p>
			<p>“Burnt up!” said the little man, scornfully; “why, we breathe fire and live in it; we should go out at once if we weren’t surrounded by it.”</p>
			<p>“Go out! What do you mean by going out. Do you mean that you’d die?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know about dying,” said the little man, “but of course, without care, one is liable to go out. But don’t let’s talk of unpleasant subjects.”</p>
			<p>“But do you mean that you live forever?” asked Jack.</p>
			<p>“With proper care there is no reason why one should go out after one is three hundred years old,” said the little man, settling himself comfortably into a corner of burning coals. “Before that age we are very delicate, and the least wind is dangerous.”</p>
			<p>“But where do you live⁠—where do you come from?” asked Jack.</p>
			<p>“We live in the very middle of the earth, where there is always a nice comfortable fire; but when you have fires alight up here, we have to come up and attend to them.”</p>
			<p>“Then do you come to lamps and candles as well?” said Jack, “for they are fire.”</p>
			<p>“We leave that to the young folks,” said the little man, with a yawn; “I never come up for anything less than a coal fire.”</p>
			<p>Jack was silent for a little; then he said⁠—</p>
			<p>“I wonder I never saw you before.”</p>
			<p>“I have always been there; so it has been only your own stupidity,” said the gnome.</p>
			<p>“I wish I could get into the fire with you,” said Jack; “I should so much like to see what it’s like.”</p>
			<p>“You couldn’t come without a proper dress,” said the tiny man, “and even then I am afraid you’d find it warm.”</p>
			<p>“I shouldn’t mind that,” said Jack. “And in your own home, where you live, is it quite red and bright, like the middle of a fire?”</p>
			<p>“It’s a great deal better. Ah, that is worth seeing!” said the fairy, thrusting one arm over a burning coal, and skilfully balancing himself in a little jet of flame. “All round the palace where our King lives there’s flame⁠—flame⁠—nothing but flame for miles, and the Princess’s windows look on to burning hills. Ah, what a pity it is people are so discontented! If there is anyone who ought to be happy, it’s the Princess Pyra.”</p>
			<p>“Isn’t she happy?” asked Jack.</p>
			<p>“Don’t be so inquisitive. She might be, if she liked.”</p>
			<p>“Then why isn’t she?”</p>
			<p>“It all came of sending her to school,” said the little man, gravely. “If she’d never left her father’s palace she would never have seen him. You must know that our King and Queen have only one daughter, Princess Pyra, and of course they are very proud of her, and wished her to make a good match. A fire King, whose country is close to ours, proposed for her, and her father and mother settled that they would accept him; but as she was very young, and they wished her to be well educated, they sent her to school for a year in a burning mountain, thinking it would give her a chance of seeing more of the world than if she always remained at home. But, as it turned out, it was a great mistake, for one day the water King’s son, Prince Fluvius, came and looked over the top of the mountain, and saw our Princess; and they fell in love with each other, and the Princess has never been happy since.”</p>
			<p>“Why can’t they be married?” asked Jack.</p>
			<p>The little man burst into a roar of laughter.</p>
			<p>“Why, you ought to know that it’s impossible. In the first place, they can’t go near each other, lest he should be dried up, or she should be put out. Besides which, our King would never hear of such a thing, as the water King is his bitterest enemy. Every evening after she first saw him, the Princess used to come to the top of the mountain, and the Prince came and sat a little way off, and then they talked together. Ah! the King little thought what mischief was brewing. But when he discovered her one evening, when he came to see her, sitting talking to Prince Fluvius, he was in a rage. He took her home at once, and was anxious to marry her to the fire Prince out of hand. But she grew so thin that the doctors said they feared if she were much excited she would go out altogether. It’s a great pity she should be so silly.”</p>
			<p>“Is she pretty?” asked Jack.</p>
			<p>“Pretty? Pretty’s no word for her. She is lovely⁠—beautiful! She is much the loveliest woman in Fireland, and she’s wonderfully clever as well.”</p>
			<p>“Little man,” said Jack, coaxingly, “take me with you, and show me your home. I would never tell anyone, and it’s so dull here. Do let me go with you.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t see how it can be done,” answered the little man. “Besides, you’d be frightened.”</p>
			<p>“I wouldn’t, I wouldn’t, indeed,” said Jack. “Only try me, and see.”</p>
			<p>“Wait a minute, then;” and the little red figure disappeared into the brightest part of the fire. In a few seconds he appeared again, carrying a little red cap, and suit, and boots.</p>
			<p>“Put on these,” he said, throwing them into Jack’s lap.</p>
			<p>“How ever shall I get them on? Why, they’re not as long as my arm.” But no sooner had he touched them than he found himself growing smaller and smaller, until the clothes seemed quite the right size for him, and he easily slipped into them.</p>
			<p>“Now take this,” said the red man, and threw him a thin shining glass mask. Jack drew it over his face. It fitted exactly, and left no openings.</p>
			<p>“Now,” said the fireman, “climb over the bars, and see how you like it.”</p>
			<p>Jack scrambled over the fender, and helping himself with the fire-irons, climbed on to the first bar. The red man leant down, and gave him his hand to help him. What a hot hand it was! It burnt like flame. Jack felt inclined to drop it, but he was afraid of seeming impolite, so he bit his lips, to prevent himself screaming, and scrambled over the bars right into the midst of the fire.</p>
			<p>On looking round, he thought he was in a new world. He stood in the middle of rich, red-glowing hills, from which sprouted jets of flame, like trees. Here and there was a black mountain, which smoked and hissed most alarmingly. But how hot it was! At first Jack felt as if he were going to faint, and could not breathe.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said the red man, who now seemed to Jack quite full-size, “how do you feel now?”</p>
			<p>“It’s warm,” murmured poor Jack.</p>
			<p>“If you can’t bear this, you won’t be able to stand Fireland. Better not come any farther,” said the fairy.</p>
			<p>“I’m all right,” said Jack, making an effort. “I daresay soon I shall feel quite used to it. How does one get to Fireland?”</p>
			<p>“I’ll show you,” said the man, taking a thin piece of stick from his pocket. This he took in both hands, and dug into the coal beneath his feet till he had made a good-sized hole. Then he took from his pocket some little marbles, and dropped them one by one into the hole, which gradually began to grow larger and larger, until it was an immense black gulf in the coal in front of him.</p>
			<p>“Now come along,” said the red man, sitting on the edge, with his legs swinging over. “Get on to my shoulders, and put your legs round my neck, and give me your hands, and I’ll take you quite safely. Only don’t scream or call out, or I shall drop you.”</p>
			<p>Jack did as he was bid, and seated himself firmly on his companion’s shoulders, holding on round his neck. He could not help feeling frightened when, without a word, his guide sprang into the hole, and began to fly through the darkness so fast that he felt giddy. They went down⁠—down⁠—down. It was pitch dark, and poor. Jack felt quite sick with the quick motion. He would have called out for them to stop, only he feared that the red man would keep his threat of letting him fall.</p>
			<p>At last, a long way beneath them, he saw a faint red light, growing larger and brighter every moment.</p>
			<p>“There’s Fireland,” said his guide, stopping for a minute, “and we shall be there in a few seconds now.” And on they went again quicker than before towards the light, which now grew so brilliant that Jack could scarcely bear to look at it.</p>
			<p>“Here we are!” said the little man, as they passed from the darkness into the light through a kind of archway. Then he quietly shook Jack from his shoulders on to the ground, and sat down to rest beside him. When he had a little recovered from his giddiness and fright, Jack raised himself, and looked about him. It was quite as strange as the fire had seemed to him. There were great hills, and they were of every shade of red and orange, some pale, some bright, and on the hillsides were lakes of fire. The sky was one mass of flame, and many of the hills smoked.</p>
			<p>“Well, what do you think of it?” asked the fire-fairy.</p>
			<p>“It’s certainly very odd,” said Jack, fearful of saying what he really thought, lest he might be thought rude. “But where do you live? I don’t see any houses.”</p>
			<p>“The towns are farther. If you want to see them, you must get on my shoulders again,” said Jack’s friend, taking him again on his back as he spoke.</p>
			<p>On they went again, passing over the ground so quickly that Jack could not see half enough of the strange country through which they passed.</p>
			<p>At last they came in sight of a large city, with tall spires and bridges, and a little way out of it stood a palace made of red-hot iron, and glistening with precious stones.</p>
			<p>“That’s the King’s palace,” said the fireman; “and as it’s the thing most worth seeing in the whole place, we’d better go there first.”</p>
			<p>“Shall I see the Princess?” asked Jack, eagerly.</p>
			<p>“Most likely she’ll be in the garden, and then you can see her as much as you like.”</p>
			<p>They stopped in front of the garden gate, and the fire-fairy, pushing it open, told Jack he could go in, but he must not make a noise. It was the queerest palace and garden. Jack now saw that what he had at first supposed to be precious stones was nothing but different-coloured fire, spouting out all over the palace. There was blue fire, and red fire, and green fire, and yellow fire, shining against the palace walls just like jewels.</p>
			<p>At first Jack thought that the garden was full of beautiful flowers, but when he drew near to them he saw that they were only fireworks in the forms of flowers. There was every sort of catherine-wheel turning round as fast as possible, throwing off sparks; and every now and then a brilliant rocket went up into the air, and fell in shining stars.</p>
			<p>Jack ran from one thing to the other, examining it with delight, when his companion, seizing his arm, drew him on one side, saying, “The Princess!” and pointed to where a group of ladies were coming slowly down the path. In their midst walked the Princess, who, Jack thought, was the most beautiful lady he had ever seen.</p>
			<p>Her long bright golden hair fell almost to her feet. Her face was very pale, and she walked very slowly and kept her eyes on the ground, with a very sad expression.</p>
			<p>She wore a shining flame-coloured dress, with a long train, and one pale blue and silver catherine-wheel fixed in her bosom, and another in her hair.</p>
			<p>She was surrounded by beautifully dressed ladies, but none so lovely as she; only Jack wished she did not look so very sad. The ladies all talked together, but the Princess never said a word.</p>
			<p>“Your Royal Highness should not walk too fast,” said one.</p>
			<p>“Had not your Royal Highness better sit down?” said another.</p>
			<p>“Will your Royal Highness not return to the palace?” asked a third. But the Princess only shook her head in silence, and walked on as before.</p>
			<p>Then Jack, seeing her so beautiful, and so unhappy, could contain himself no longer, but burst out⁠—</p>
			<p>“Oh, poor Princess! how sorry I am for you!”</p>
			<p>At this the Princess raised her eyes for the first time. Such bright eyes they were, shining just like stars, Jack could not bear to look at them, but had to turn his own another way.</p>
			<p>“Who spoke?” said the Princess, in a low, sad voice. “Which of you spoke?”</p>
			<p>The ladies said nothing, but looked at each other in surprise.</p>
			<p>“Someone said she was sorry for me, and I am sure you need not mind my knowing which of you it was,” continued the Princess, beginning to sob, only, instead of tears, sparks fell from her eyes.</p>
			<p>Here all the ladies drew about her, and tried to soothe her. “You know,” said one, “that the doctors said that, whatever happened, your Royal Highness was not to excite yourself, or the consequences might be fatal.”</p>
			<p>“Pray be calm, your Royal Highness,” said another. “You will really make yourself seriously ill if you go on in this way.”</p>
			<p>“But who spoke?” asked the Princess again. “I think it very unkind of you all not to tell me. It’s the first time I have heard a kind voice since I left school.”</p>
			<p>At this Jack could keep silence no longer, and, despite the red fireman, who did his best to hold him back, he strode in front of the Princess, and said⁠—</p>
			<p>“If you please, your Royal Highness, it was I.”</p>
			<p>“You! And who are you?” asked the Princess, kindly.</p>
			<p>“I’m a little boy, and my name is Jack.”</p>
			<p>“How did you come here?”</p>
			<p>“I came with him,” said Jack, pointing to the red fireman. “And you must not be angry with him, for I made him bring me.”</p>
			<p>“I am not the least angry, either with him or you,” said the Princess, very graciously. “But I want to know why you said you pitied me.”</p>
			<p>“Because you look so unhappy, and I think it’s very sad for you to be parted from your Prince,” said Jack.</p>
			<p>Here all the ladies crowded round him, and tried to stop his speaking, but the Princess said⁠—</p>
			<p>“Silence! I insist upon it. It does no harm for me to hear him, and I will not allow you to stop him in this way. Thank you, little boy, for what you have said. And for you,” she added, turning to Jack’s first friend, “I am not the least angry with you, and I particularly desire that no one shall mention this to my father;” but just as she stopped speaking, a cloud of smoke was seen rolling over the hills, and the ladies cried⁠—</p>
			<p>“The King! the King!”</p>
			<p>“Go! go!” cried the Princess to Jack, and the fireman without more ado seized him, and placing him on his shoulders flew through the air with him at a great rate, and was far from the palace before Jack could get breath to speak.</p>
			<p>“A fine mess you have nearly got me into!” grumbled the little man. “It will be the last time I ever take you anywhere with me, you may be sure. What would have happened to me if the King had come up and heard you talking to the Princess of the very subject he had forbidden us all to mention?”</p>
			<p>Jack dared not say a word, as his companion was so angry, and on they went flying through the air at a dreadful pace. At last they reached the long dark tunnel and flew up it, and when they again came towards the light, the little man took Jack from his shoulders and flung him away with all his force, and he remembered nothing more till he found himself lying on the hearthrug in his own room. It might all have been a dream, only he was so sure it wasn’t.</p>
			<p>The fire had gone out, and the only light in the room came from the street lamps. Jack jumped up and searched everywhere for any trace of the little man, but could find none. He ran to the fireplace and called, but there was no answer, and at last he went shivering and cold to bed to dream of the Princess and the strange bright country underground, of which no one knows.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>In the morning he was awoke by his mother placing a little parcel in his hand as she kissed him. Jack was delighted when he opened it and found some crackers and sugar cakes and a wooden soldier off a Christmas-tree. He amused himself all the morning playing with them, but he could not forget the fire-people and the pale pretty Princess. He dared not tell his mother, lest he might make the fireman angry, and prevent his showing himself again. Next evening he was alone again, and sat looking anxiously between the bars, but nothing could he see of the fire-people. Then he ran to the window and looked out, in search of the water Prince or the little wind-fairy, but neither could he see, though it rained hard, and the wind blew loudly. So night after night passed, his mother went out and he was left alone, and yet he saw no trace of him, and he began to fear he should never know more of the fire-people.</p>
			<p>New Year’s-eve came, and Jack’s mother had to go out and leave him to watch the new year in alone. It was a miserable night. It rained in torrents, and the wind blew, in great melancholy gusts. Jack sat by the window, and looked out on the wet street and the driving clouds. He had given up looking in the fire for his little red friend, and tonight he was busy thinking of the new year which would begin tomorrow.</p>
			<p>“When this next year is done,” he said to himself, “I shall be eight years old. Mother says I am very small of my years. I wonder if I shall be bigger then.”</p>
			<p>“Little Jack,” called a low sighing voice from the grate.</p>
			<p>Jack started, and ran to the fireplace. The fire was almost out. There was only a dull red glare in the coals, but kneeling in it, holding on to the bars, was the fire Princess. She was paler than before, and looked quite transparent. Jack could see the coals plainly through her.</p>
			<p>“Put on some more coal,” she said, shivering. “There is not enough for me to burn here, and if I don’t keep up a good blaze I shall go out altogether.”</p>
			<p>Jack did as he was bid, and then sat down on the hearthrug, staring at the Princess with all his might. Her long bright hair fell over the bars, and though her face looked very small and pale, her eyes were immense, and glittered like diamonds.</p>
			<p>“How beautiful you are!” he said at last.</p>
			<p>“Am I?” said the Princess with a sigh. “So my Prince said. It was with the greatest difficulty I managed to get here tonight, but I was determined to come. Ever since I saw you, I have thought of you so much.”</p>
			<p>“Have you?” said Jack, still staring.</p>
			<p>“Yes, you were so sorry for me, and all my people are so unkind. Now I want you to do me a favour.”</p>
			<p>“What is it?” asked Jack.</p>
			<p>“Let the Prince come here and speak to me.”</p>
			<p>“How am I to bring him?” said Jack.</p>
			<p>“I will show you. Is it raining tonight?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, fast.”</p>
			<p>“That is very lucky; some of his people are sure to be about. Then all you must do is, to open the window and wait.”</p>
			<p>“But the rain will come into the room,” said Jack.</p>
			<p>“No, it will not, and if it does it will not do you any harm. You can’t be quenched with water. Bea good boy, and do as I tell you.”</p>
			<p>So Jack threw open one of the windows. A great gust of wind blew into the room, and blew the cold wet rain into his face. The fire around the Princess broke out into a blaze, and then sank away, but she did not move, but called to Jack to stand between her and the window to keep off the draught and wet. He did as she bade him, and then she began to sing.</p>
			<p>First she sang in a low voice, then her song grew louder and louder, and clearer and clearer. At last she stopped and said⁠—</p>
			<p>“Now, little Jack, look on the windowsill and tell me what you see.”</p>
			<p>Jack ran to the window, and just outside, seated on the sill, in a little pool of water, was a tiny man dressed in a dull green dress. He had long wavy hair, that looked heavy and wet, and his clothes were shiny with water. He eyed Jack very crossly for a minute or two, then he said⁠—</p>
			<p>“Who are you, and what do you want?”</p>
			<p>“Tell him,” whispered the Princess, “that he must bring Prince Fluvius here;” and Jack repeated to the water-fairy what she said.</p>
			<p>“And who are you who dares to ask me to bring the Prince?” said he. “Do you think our Prince is to be taken about anywhere⁠—and everywhere, just because mortals want him.” But, on hearing this, the Princess began to sing again in the same soft voice, growing louder and louder, till the water-fairy sprang up, promising to bring Prince Fluvius, or do anything else Jack wished, if only the song would cease, as he could not endure the heat, for it was a spell the Princess sang, and if she had gone on he would have been dried up altogether.</p>
			<p>Then the Princess leaned back amongst the coals in silence. The water-fairy at once disappeared, and Jack stood at the window watching for what would come with great interest.</p>
			<p>The rain fell in torrents, and suddenly the room began to grow very dark. When the Princess saw this she raised her head.</p>
			<p>“He is coming,” she said; and immediately there shot out from her, on all sides, a brilliant golden light, in the midst of which she looked even more beautiful than before. Then there floated up outside the window a white cloud, which rested on the sill. The cloud opened, and from it stepped the figure of a young man, gorgeously dressed in silver and green. He was about the size of the Princess, and next to her Jack thought he was the most beautiful little creature he had ever seen. He had long dark curls hanging down, and a sweet pale face, with eyes of a deep blue, just the colour of the sea.</p>
			<p>At sight of Princess Pyra he started, and would have dashed right up to the bars, had she not begged him for both their sakes not to come inside the window.</p>
			<p>“It is you, my darling,” he said, leaning into the room. “And I believed I should never see you again. Oh, let me only once take you in my arms!”</p>
			<p>“Do not think of such a thing,” called the Princess. “It would be fatal to us both.”</p>
			<p>“At any rate, we should perish together,” said Prince Fluvius.</p>
			<p>“And how much better to live together!” said the Princess.</p>
			<p>“If that were possible,” said the Prince, sighing.</p>
			<p>“And it is possible,” said the Princess. “Since I last saw you I have learnt that there is only one person in the world who can help us, and that is the old man who sits on the North Pole. He knows everything, and could we but send to him and ask his advice, he would tell us what to do.”</p>
			<p>“But how are we to send to him?” said the Prince. “If you were to go, the sea would surely quench you on the way, and I should be frozen directly I got to the ice-people, and never return to you. As for the wind-fairies, who are constantly there, they are such silly little things, they could never remember a message.”</p>
			<p>“Little Jack,” cried the Princess, turning towards him, “you will go for us, will you not?”</p>
			<p>“I?” cried Jack, frightened. “How am I to go?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing can be easier. One of the wind-fairies will take you and bring you back⁠—as the Prince will direct. You shall go, tonight. Now, dear Jack, you will do it for us, will you not? And we shall be so grateful.”</p>
			<p>Jack did not know what to say, but he looked first at the Prince sitting on the windowsill with the rain pouring around him, looking wistfully towards him, with his handsome mournful eyes; then he looked at the Princess kneeling on the glowing coals, entreating him with clasped hands to help them, while sparks fell from her bright eyes. And they were both so beautiful that he could not bear to refuse them, and was silent.</p>
			<p>The Princess saw at once that he wavered, and said, smiling, “Then it is settled; you will go for us. And now, dear little Jack, listen very carefully to all the directions we give you, and be sure you do all we tell you. The old man at the North Pole is very mischievous and cunning, and always does his best to deceive anyone who comes to him for help. And there is one thing of which you must be very careful. You must not, whatever happens, ask him more than one question. The first question that he is asked he is bound to answer truthfully, but if you ask him more than one, he will at once seize you and keep you under the ice. He will do all he can to tempt you to ask more than one, but you must not mind him. And be sure to remember exactly what he says about me.”</p>
			<p>“What am I to say, then?” asked Jack.</p>
			<p>“Say, ‘I come from the fire Princess Pyra, and she is in love with Prince Fluvius, the water Prince, and wants to know how they are to be married;’ and then shut your lips and do not speak again, whatever he says. When you come to the ice-country, you will find it very cold, so I shall give you a fireball to keep you warm. And be sure you do not stop and talk to the ice-people, for if you do you will be frozen to death.”</p>
			<p>“How am I to go?” asked Jack again.</p>
			<p>“Go to the window, and you will see the wind-fairy who is to take you.”</p>
			<p>Jack did as he was told, and saw standing beside Prince Fluvius a little man dressed in light dust-coloured clothes, which hung on him loosely, seeming barely to touch him.</p>
			<p>His face was very cheerful, but there was scarcely any expression in it, and whenever he moved there came a violent gust of wind.</p>
			<p>“Are you ready?” asked the Prince, kindly.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Jack, feeling very much frightened.</p>
			<p>“You need not be afraid, little Jack,” said Prince Fluvius; “you have nothing to do but to sit on his shoulders, and he will take you quite safely.”</p>
			<p>So saying he touched him on the head, and Jack began to feel himself growing smaller and smaller, till he was the same size as the Prince and Princess.</p>
			<p>“Come on, then,” said the wind-fairy, in an odd gusty voice. Jack sat down on his shoulders in the same way as he had before sat upon the fire-fairy, and they prepared to start.</p>
			<p>“Goodbye, little Jack,” called the Princess from the fire. “When your turn comes, you will find that we shall not forget to help you.”</p>
			<p>“Goodbye, little Jack,” echoed the Prince. “Do not forget all we have told you, and be sure you ask no second question of the old man.”</p>
			<p>“Goodbye,” called Jack, and off they went. The rain beat into Jack’s face, and he felt giddy with the rate at which they flew, but he was silent, and held on tightly to the wind-fairy’s neck.</p>
			<p>On they went in silence, going over the tops of the houses, among the chimney-tops, in a way Jack thought frightful. Then they came to the country, and flew over fields and lanes. At last the clouds cleared away, and the moon came out, and Jack could see where they were going. He was getting more used to his position now, and felt less afraid to look about him. They flew over woods and rivers, and passed villages, which looked in the distance as small as if they were made of toy houses and churches. At last they came in sight of the sea, and Jack could keep silence no longer, but burst out⁠—</p>
			<p>“I hope we are not going over there?”</p>
			<p>“Indeed we are,” said, or rather puffed out, his companion, for his words came out like a gust of wind. “I thought you were never going to speak, and I did not like to speak first. How are you? I hope you feel pretty comfortable.”</p>
			<p>“Pretty well,” answered Jack. “But I am afraid if we cross the sea I shall tumble in.”</p>
			<p>“No, you shan’t,” said the other. “I shall keep tight hold of you. Oh! it’s splendid when one gets into the middle of the sea. It’s worth blowing there.”</p>
			<p>“Won’t it be very cold?” asked Jack.</p>
			<p>“Nothing to speak of,” said his companion, carelessly. “When we get among the ice and snow you may be chilly, but I’ve got the fireball the Princess gave me to blow in front of us, and that will keep you warm. I wonder what it is you want to ask the old man. Won’t you tell me?”</p>
			<p>“I think I’d better not,” said Jack. “I suppose he is a very wise old man.”</p>
			<p>“Wise! He knows everything, and whatever you ask he’s sure to give you, as long as it’s the first question. Now we are going over the water.”</p>
			<p>Then they began to cross the sea. Jack, who had quite got over his fear, enjoyed the journey. The sea danced and sparkled beneath them. The moon threw a silver crest on the top of each tiny wave. Here and there were little ships sailing briskly along in the breeze. Soon they lost sight of land altogether, and then Jack thought it was glorious.</p>
			<p>Nothing but the bright sparkling sea all round for miles. He laughed aloud for pleasure, and would have been quite happy, only for a thought⁠—a naughty little thought⁠—which would keep coming into his mind, and which grew and grew in spite of himself. He put up his hands to his head to keep it out, but there it was all the same, and there it remained. It was this⁠—Why should he not ask the old man something for himself, instead of asking him about the Princess at all? Who would ever know? Why should he not ask him to make him straight and well? How pleased his mother would be if she came home that night to find her little boy a cripple no longer. How easy it would be to invent something to tell the Princess, and no one else would tell the truth. He knew it was naughty. He had promised, and he ought to keep his promise, and he thought of the Princess’s pale face and the Prince’s sad voice. And then he thought of his mother, and his own dull home, and could scarcely keep from crying.</p>
			<p>“Listen!” said the wind-fairy. “Don’t you hear someone singing?”</p>
			<p>Jack listened, and heard a sad sweet voice singing a song, which was more beautiful than anything he had ever heard before.</p>
			<p>“That is a mermaid,” said the wind-fairy, “and she is singing until the ship follows the sound. Then she will gradually lead it down into a whirlpool, and there it will be swallowed up, and the poor sailors will never return to their wives and little children. But I will go and blow the ship in another direction, whether it likes it or no, until it is out of the sound of her song, and then it will go on all right. Ah! men little think, when they complain of meeting gales of wind, that it is often for their own good, and that we are blowing them away from danger, not into it.”</p>
			<p>“A mermaid!” cried Jack. “I have never seen one. How much I should like to see her!”</p>
			<p>“When we have gone to the ship we will go and look at her,” said the wind-fairy. Then he flew to one side, till they came to a ship full of sailors sailing quietly along, and the wind-fairy began to blow with all his might. He blew till the sea rose in great heavy waves. The ship leaned over on one side. The captain shouted. The sailors threw up the ropes, and all trembled for fear. But much against their will the ship had to be turned about and go in another direction, and the wind-fairy never left off blowing till she was many miles away from the sound of the mermaid’s song.</p>
			<p>“Now we will go and look at the mermaid,” said he; and back they flew again to the same spot. There, beneath them, resting on the top of the waves, Jack saw a very beautiful maiden. She had sad green eyes and long green hair. When he looked closer he saw that she had a long bright tail instead of legs, but he thought her very beautiful all the same. She was still singing in a sad sleepy voice, and as he listened he began to long to jump into the sea beside her. And the longing grew so strong that he would have thrown himself into her arms at once, had not the wind-fairy seized him and flown off with him before he had time.</p>
			<p>How pleased the wind-fairy was about the ship!</p>
			<p>“I am so glad we came up,” he said. “A few minutes later and the mermaid would have got it, and I could have done nothing;” and he laughed for pleasure.</p>
			<p>Then when Jack thought of the poor ship, and how nearly she had perished, and saw how glad the good little wind-man was that he had saved her, all the naughty thoughts left his mind.</p>
			<p>“Surely,” he said to himself, “if this poor silly little wind-fairy can be so glad when he has done a good deed, I ought to be glad to help other people and not to think of myself;” and he made up his mind that whatever happened he would not desert the Princess, but would do exactly what she had told him.</p>
			<p>On they went. Presently it began to grow very cold. In the sea beneath were great lumps of floating ice, and all sorts of strange sea monsters were springing about.</p>
			<p>“We had better stop here, and I will get out the Princess’s fireball,” said the fairy, and he placed Jack on a great lump of floating ice. On it there sat a family of seals, and much frightened they looked when he was dropped amongst them.</p>
			<p>“Don’t you know,” said the old seal, turning sharply to him, “that it is exceedingly rude to come into a person’s block of ice without asking leave?”</p>
			<p>“I am very sorry, I am sure,” murmured Jack.</p>
			<p>“Let him alone,” said another younger seal; “I am sure he is very nice-looking. Would you like me to fetch you a little fish? I dare say you’re very hungry, and I can catch you some in a moment if you like it.”</p>
			<p>Jack had not time to refuse before an older seal turned to him and said⁠—</p>
			<p>“I am in want of a servant, if that’s what you are come for, and as you are a nice tidy-looking person, I don’t mind trying you; only I am very particular about my ice being bright, and the water all round it being kept clean.”</p>
			<p>They were all crowding round him, when the wind-fairy came up, and with one puff sent them all into the water again.</p>
			<p>“See,” he said, taking Jack up again, “I have sent on the ball before us, and it will keep you nice and warm.”</p>
			<p>Jack looked in front of him and saw a great ball of light, which the wind-fairy blew along as he went, and which sent out a soft warmth.</p>
			<p>“How did you manage to carry it?” he asked of the fairy.</p>
			<p>“It was quite a little thing when Princess Pyra gave it to me,” he answered, “no bigger than a spark of light, and I have blown it up to its present size. I doubt if it will keep alight till after we reach the North Pole, but it will keep you warm till then, and I shall be able to bring you back very quickly. Now we are coming to the ice-world.”</p>
			<p>Looking about him, Jack saw that the blocks of ice were growing larger and larger as they went on, and the spaces of water less and less, until at last they disappeared altogether, and nothing could be seen but an immense plain of solid ice. The moon shone upon it brightly, and moving noiselessly over the surface were a number of almost transparent forms of men and women, with deadly white faces and cold glittering eyes. They never spoke, but moved about swiftly and silently. They fled at the sight of the fireball, but when they saw Jack some of them stopped and motioned to him to stop too.</p>
			<p>“Who are they?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“They are ice-people,” said his guide; “they live on the ice, and never speak, but always glide about as you see them now.”</p>
			<p>“Why mayn’t we stop and see them?” said Jack.</p>
			<p>His companion said nothing, but pointed down to where some dark heavy-looking figures lay motionless beneath the clear ice.</p>
			<p>“Do you see?” he said. “These are the bodies of men and women whom the ice-people have caught and frozen to death. If any unfortunate ship is wrecked among the ice-blocks, the ice-people at once flock round it and seize the passengers, and carry them over here and freeze them. They are as wicked and cruel as the mermaids. If I were to leave you for only a second, you would be frozen, and nothing could save you. Now we are coming near the North Pole. Look over there.”</p>
			<p>Jack looked away across the ice, and saw a clear pink light that darted up into the sky in bars. It seemed to come from a curious dark lump in the form of a mushroom, which stood up into the air.</p>
			<p>“That is the North Pole,” said his friend, “and the light comes from the old man’s lantern.”</p>
			<p>“Does he live there all alone?” asked Jack.</p>
			<p>“All alone, and he quarrels with everyone. He used to be very good friends with the old man at the South Pole, and they often slid up and down the Pole to see each other. But one day they had a quarrel, and now they’re not on speaking terms.”</p>
			<p>“What did they quarrel about?” inquired Jack.</p>
			<p>“How should I know?” said the wind-fairy, a little crossly. “One really can’t be expected to remember all these little things;” for the wind-fairies cannot bear to be reminded of their want of memory. “Now say what you have to say to him quickly, and get it done, and then I’ll take you back.” So saying, he put him down on the ice, and sat down himself a little way off.</p>
			<p>Jack looked about him, and began to think he must be dreaming. It was such a strange scene. All round was the clear cold ice, and just in front of him was the great lump in the form of a mushroom, made of some thick shining stuff like ivory, and seated right in the middle of it was a little old man. He nursed his knees with his arms and hugged a huge brown lantern full of holes, from which shot up into the air on each side the long bright pink rays which Jack had seen before. The old man wore a big brown cloak, and on his head a small skullcap, from beneath which fell his long straight white hair.</p>
			<p>He was a very ugly old man; there was no doubt about that. His face was almost flat, and he had a large hooknose. He seemed to be asleep, for his head hung over on one side, and his eyes were shut. Jack dared not wake him, and stood watching him, He might have remained there forever; the old man would never have moved of himself, if the wind-fairy had not blown a tremendous gust, which made the pink light in the lantern flicker, and the old man start up and open his eyes and see Jack.</p>
			<p>“And who are you?” he asked, in a deep rolling voice. “Come to ask a question, I am sure. No one ever comes to see me unless they want to ask something. Come nearer and let me see you.”</p>
			<p>Jack drew near to the old man’s seat, trembling much. He tried to remember what the Princess had told him to say, but somehow or other it had gone out of his head, and he did not know how to begin.</p>
			<p>“Now what is it?” asked the old man, with a low chuckle. “Do you want me to tell you how to grow tall and straight, or where to find a big bag of money to take home to your mother? What do you want? Speak out, and don’t be afraid.”</p>
			<p>Again the naughty thoughts came back into Jack’s mind. He looked across to where the wind-fairy had fallen asleep on the ice. He gazed up at the pink light shining into the black sky. He thought of his mother, then of the poor fire Princess, and making a violent effort, and shutting his eyes that he might not see the grinning face of the old man, he said⁠—</p>
			<p>“I’m come from the fire Princess, Princess Pyra, and she wants to marry the water King’s son, Prince Fluvius, and they’re afraid of touching each other, lest he should be dried up, or she put out. So, please, they want to know what to do.”</p>
			<p>Here Jack stopped, and opened his eyes, and saw that the old man was shaking so with laughter that he feared he would tumble off the Pole altogether. He went on chuckling for such a time that Jack thought he would never stop. And when he had done, it was some time before he could find breath to speak, but sat panting and sighing, and every now and then beginning to laugh afresh. After a time, however, he was more calm, and then he said⁠—</p>
			<p>“Oh, the stupidity of people! And all this time they are afraid of doing the very thing they ought to do. Of course it’s impossible for them to marry till he is dried up, or she is put out. What puts out fire but water? and what dries up water but fire? Princess Pyra has been educated at a good school. I should think she might have known better. You had better go back to Prince Fluvius, and tell him to <q>give her a kiss;</q>” and then the old man began to laugh again.</p>
			<p>Jack stood by, sorely puzzled; yet he dared not ask again. Then the old man turned to him, and said⁠—</p>
			<p>“And now what do you want to ask next? Let it be something for yourself this time, my little man. What shall it be? I’ll tell you whatever you want to know.”</p>
			<p>A dozen questions flashed into Jack’s mind at once. How he longed to ask them! But he remembered the Princess’s warning, and held his tongue. He looked at the wind-fairy, who was still asleep, and wondered how he could wake him. The ice was so slippery that he dared not walk upon it. He was just trying to move off gently, when the old man caught him by his wrist with a long skinny hand, and held him firmly back.</p>
			<p>“Come, now,” he said, coaxingly, while his eyes sparkled cunningly; “you’ll never go back after asking only one question, when you have come so far. That would be very foolish. Ask something else while you <em>are</em> here.”</p>
			<p>He held Jack so tightly that he began to be frightened, and gave a violent wriggle, which knocked over the old man’s lantern. It fell with an enormous crash, and woke the wind-fairy, who was at his side in an instant.</p>
			<p>“Well,” he said, “are you ready?”</p>
			<p>“Quite,” said Jack, his teeth chattering with fear, for the old fellow had flown into a violent rage, and was stretching out his long thin arms to catch him; but the wind-fairy blew in his face till he was forced to shut his eyes, and turn his head away. Then he took Jack on his shoulders, and flew off with him without another word.</p>
			<p>“The fireball is gone out,” he said to Jack, after they had gone a little way; “so I’m afraid you’ll be cold. If you feel sleepy you may as well go to sleep. I won’t let you fall; and I am about to go so quickly that you won’t see anything we pass.”</p>
			<p>Jack did feel both sleepy and cold, and was very glad to fall into a doze, although he woke every now and then to ask if they were getting near home. At last the fairy said, “Now we are over London, and you’ll be home in a few minutes.”</p>
			<p>“I hope my mother isn’t come home yet,” said Jack. “She’d be so frightened if she came back, and didn’t find me.”</p>
			<p>“Come back!” laughed the fairy. “Why, it isn’t twelve o’clock yet, and the New Year is not come in. Here is the street where you live.”</p>
			<p>Jack could not believe that they had not been gone more than an hour. It seemed more like twenty.</p>
			<p>From outside the window he could see the Prince kneeling on the sill in exactly the same position as when he had left him, and he wondered if the Princess was still sitting in the fire. Yes. When the wind-fairy placed him in the middle of the room, there she was in exactly the same place, with her golden hair falling over the bars.</p>
			<p>“Well,” cried she and the Prince together, “what did he say, little Jack? Tell us at once.”</p>
			<p>“I’m so cold,” said Jack; “I’m almost frozen.”</p>
			<p>The Princess made a great blaze in the coals till the room was quite light. Then she turned to Jack again.</p>
			<p>“Now,” she said, “you must be warm. Do not keep us any longer in suspense.”</p>
			<p>Jack hesitated for a minute; then he looked at the Princess, and repeated what the old man had said. “ ‘What puts out fire but water? what dries up water but fire? Tell him to give her a kiss!’ ”</p>
			<p>Both Prince and Princess were silent when they heard this. Then the Prince said, with a sigh⁠—</p>
			<p>“It is as I thought. He means that there is no hope for us, and that we must perish together. For my part, I am quite willing, as anything would be better than life without you, my Pyra.”</p>
			<p>“He meant no such thing,” cried the Princess. “And I think now I begin to understand him. We must both be changed before we can be happy. Come, then, my Prince; I have no fear, and will willingly risk being quenched altogether, if there is a chance of our union.”</p>
			<p>So saying, the Princess rose up, and stepped lightly from the grate on to the floor, surrounded by a halo of shining flame.</p>
			<p>Jack screamed aloud, afraid lest the room should take fire; but in the same moment the Prince swept down from the window, and a flood of water splashed on to the floor. Then, without another word, the two rushed into each other’s arms.</p>
			<p>A great crash⁠—a sound like a clap of thunder; then the room was filled with smoke, through which Jack could see nothing. He felt frightened, and inclined to cry; but in a minute or two he heard the soft voice of the Princess, calling to him⁠—</p>
			<p>“Jack, Jack!” and he saw the smoke clearing away.</p>
			<p>There, in the middle of the room, stood the Princess Pyra⁠—the same, yet not the same; and beside her was Prince Fluvius, like himself in face and figure, and yet altered. His arm was about the Princess, and she leaned her head on his shoulder.</p>
			<p>She was no longer surrounded by flames, and the weird brightness had passed from her face and dress.</p>
			<p>Her hair looked softer and glittered less, and her eyes no longer seemed to burn, but beamed on Jack with a soft, mild light. The coloured catherine-wheel had disappeared from her bosom, and in its place was a bunch of real water-lilies. The Prince was no less changed. His eyes were bright and clear, his hair had lost its wet gloss, and was dry and curly; his clothes looked crisp and firm.</p>
			<p>The Princess bent her head with a sob, and this time real tears fell from her eyes. The Prince stooped to kiss them away, and as he did so the clock began to strike twelve, and all the bells in the great city rang out to tell the world that the New Year was born. And as they rang, the room was filled with the strangest forms. Fairies, goblins, elves, beautiful, ugly, and strange, floated in at the open window, and pressed around the Prince and Princess, and filled every nook and corner of the room. But they all looked kindly at Jack, and smiled at him, whilst he sat and cried for joy. With every stroke of the clock, with every clash of the bells, their number increased, but at the sixth stroke, the young couple rose from the ground, and began to float slowly towards the window.</p>
			<p>“Goodbye, little Jack; we shall never forget you,” called the Princess, as she floated away, and she waved her hand and smiled sweetly.</p>
			<p>“Goodbye, little Jack,” echoed the Prince; “we shall come when you want us;” and as the clock struck the last stroke of twelve they passed out of the window. But still the Princess looked back, and kissed her hand. Then all the strange company who had filled the room a moment before, arose and floated away around the Prince and Princess, and the room was left empty and cold, and little Jack was left alone.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>A whole year had passed away, and Jack was turned seven years old. A whole long year, and he had heard or seen nothing of his fairy friends.</p>
			<p>He had stirred the fire, he had watched the water, but in vain. They had gone, he feared, never to return, and he was fast beginning to think it must all have been a strange dream.</p>
			<p>Christmas had come round again, but this was a very different Christmas to last year’s, for little Jack was very ill, sick unto death, and lay in bed and could not move. His mother went out to no parties, for all day and night she sat by her little boy’s bedside. How she cried! Jack could not quite understand why, for, when he was not in pain, he liked very well to lie in bed, with his mother sitting beside him to pet and amuse him.</p>
			<p>Christmas week passed, and New Year’s-eve came. His mother was so weary with watching, that she could keep awake no longer, and slept in spite of herself, in the armchair at the bedside.</p>
			<p>Jack lay still, looking at the bright new moon through the window. A white crisp layer of snow covered the housetops, on which the moon’s light shone silver and clear. As he lay and watched, the candle flickered down in its socket, and then went out altogether.</p>
			<p>“This time last year I saw the Princess,” said Jack to himself, “but I shan’t see her again,” and he sighed.</p>
			<p>“Little Jack,” called a low sweet voice that made him start and tremble.</p>
			<p>He looked up at the window, and there, standing in a moonbeam, was the Princess, looking far more beautiful even than before, and the Prince stood close beside her.</p>
			<p>“Did you think you would never see us again?” she asked. “But this will be for the last time, for we are going to live on the other side of the moon, and shall never come back again. Now see what we have brought you. This is a magic belt, and we have been a whole year making it. You must put it on, and it will make you quite strong, and in a few years you will no longer be a cripple.”</p>
			<p>Jack then saw that between them they bore a kind of silver hoop, which they carried to the bedside, and the Princess said⁠—</p>
			<p>“No one will know it is there, for directly it is upon you it will become invisible. Neither will you feel it yourself. Now sit up, and I will put it on for you.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you, dear Princess,” said Jack, sitting up in bed.</p>
			<p>Then the Prince and Princess slipped the belt over Jack’s head, and fastened it round his waist, but when it was on he could neither feel nor see it.</p>
			<p>“Then farewell, dear little Jack,” said they. “This time we part forever.” And the Princess stooped and kissed Jack on his forehead. Such a kiss it was, he had never felt anything so nice in his life.</p>
			<p>“Goodbye, dear, kind Princess,” he said, huskily, stretching out his hands towards her, for he felt very sad at the thought that he should never see her again.</p>
			<p>Then both Prince and Princess floated up the moonbeam, and the Princess looked back and kissed her hand as before, and they flew out of the window, and Jack never saw them again.</p>
			<p>But the next day, when the doctor came, he said Jack was much better, and would soon be well, and it was all the new medicine he had given him.</p>
			<p>And when Jack told his mother about the Princess, and the wonderful belt he wore, she only shook her head and said with a smile, “Dear boy, you have had a dream, and I am glad it was such a pleasant one.”</p>
			<p>Years afterwards, when he had grown to be a tall strong boy, he often felt for the belt, but never could find it; and when his mother rejoiced over his cure, and said it all came of his growing so much stronger after the illness he had had that winter, he smiled to himself and said⁠—</p>
			<p>“Nay, it all came of my going to the North Pole for the fire Princess.”</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
